in this video we are going to install
Jenkins on a Mac you will learn the
options available to install Jenkins on
Mac OS the practical part of this video
is to install Jenkins on a Mac the only
prerequisite is 12 Java installed on
your Mac either the Java Runtime
environment JRE or the Java development
kit JDK I recommend to use Java 8 if
possible if you don't have Java
installed yet here is the link at the
time this video was recorded to download
and install JDK 8 on a Mac will not go
into the Java installation during the
practical part of the video so make sure
your Java 8 installed before you start
there are two options for installing
Jenkins on a Mac you can use the default
installation via the OSX
stable installer for Jenkins we will
cover this type of installation during
the demo if you prefer the terminal you
can also install Jenkins using brew here
is the command to install Jenkins using
brew just open a terminal and type this
command I recommend to install the
Jenkins
LTS version for long term support will
not cover this installation during the
demo we will install Jenkins using the
OSX stable installer this should work on
any modern version of Mac OS in a
nutshell will download the installer for
the latest long-term support
LTS version of Jenkins open the
installer and follow the instructions on
screen without any further ado let's
install Jenkins on Mac OS open your
favorite browser and go to Jenkins dot
IO / download scroll down to the
long-term support section and click on
Mac OS X this starts the download of the
Installer wait until the download is
finished I am moving forward a little
bit here at the end of the download the
welcome screen of the Jenkins installer
starts automatically
click on continue to start the
installation
accept the license agreement and click
on install
we are prompt to enter the admin
password to install new software on the
Mac enter your password and click on
install software the installation takes
a little while so I'm moving forward a
bit at the end of the installation
process Jenkins opens up automatically
on your favorite browser we are asked to
unlock Jenkins using the temporary
administrator password stored locally
copy the path to the file and open the
file with your favorite editor
you may need the admin password to open
this file copy the temporary password
paste it under administrator password
and click on continue we are now asked
to customize Jenkins by installing
plugins if you know exactly which
plugins you need click on select plugins
to install and choose your plugins
otherwise install the suggested plugins
I recommend this option if you are
starting with Jenkins this takes a
little while depending on your internet
connection so I'm moving forward a bit
until we get to plugins installation
green as a last step we are asked to
create the first admin user enter a user
name a strong password full name and
email address and click on save and
finish Jenkins is now setup so start
using it well done Jenkins is now
installed on your system and ready to be
put to work this is the end of the video
where we installed and set up Jenkins on
a Mac watch the next video where we will
be installing Jenkins on Linux